>> Marcy Sutton: Let's talk
about some motion in animation,
because with a lot of the interactivity
that we're adding to sites,
the delight that our design teams
are lovingly asking us to add,
can be unsafe for people with
certain impairments, disabilities.
People who are motion sick have
sensitivity to a lot of animating
things on the Internet.
Autoplaying videos come to mind, and
we can cause actual harm to people if we
aren't more careful with our animation.
Fortunately, we have
a really awesome tool for
this now in CSS called
prefers-reduced-motion.
It's a CSS media query that we can
use to change how our animations
display depending on an operating
system level preference.
We can also do things to help
the situation with motion by adding more
controls to our interfaces,
so regardless of support for
something like prefers-reduced-motion,
if we add playback controls to
give the user more control over
interfaces, and it should say opt-out for
autoplay, like let the user opt-in,
if they want something autoplayed.
Don't just like put
autoplay on everything.
That can be a difficult conversation to
have with some people at your company
sometimes, so I definitely get that, but
this is where, if we can use tooling,
and user preferences,
we can start to make safer interactivity.
And there's a great article linked
here on the opennews.org site about
your interactive is making me sick,
especially for
people who work at news organizations,
like a New York Times, or Public Radio,
you get a lot of interactives that
are really thoughtfully created, and
they maybe they weren't thinking about
motion sickness or motion sensitivity.
So it's good to read more about that.
I have an animation, I have to give you a
content warning, like that's another thing
you could do, if you have something that's
flashing, adding a content warning.
Maybe you don't show it, or you don't
animate it until the users like, okay,
that's fine, because if I want to animate
this, I'm going to open it up on code pen.
And actually,
I know what's happening here.
So I have prefers-reduced-motion
turned on on my machine, so
it's not animating, which is cool.
So if I go to my preferences,
System Preferences on the Mac, and
I go to the Accessibility-Display, there
is this setting here called Reduce motion,
and if I turn that off, it should start
animating if this is working properly.
>> Speaker 2: You didn't
hit the button to it.
>> Marcy Sutton: And
I have a toggle button.
Okay, so
there were two things happening here.
This interface uses reduced motion and
local storage.
So I've obviously interacted with this
before, because it was turned off, and
thank you [LAUGH] for the tip.
So I added a toggle button here,
and if the user preference,
I'm going to turn the animation off,
if I change this reduce motion,
I can react right away to turn it off, and
I'm using that media query to
hide that toggle button as well.
So with CSS, I can do some pretty cool
things to turn animation on and off.
I don't want to leave
that up here too long.
But what I like about that is it gives
the user multiple ways to control it,
including this toggle button,
which would work in every browser.
It doesn't depend on support for
prefers-reduced-motion.
So here's what the media query looks like.
You say @media (prefers- reduced-motion:,
and then you can add
different qualifiers here.
I'm saying : reduce, so
(prefers-reduced-motion: reduce), and
then I can target any CSS
classes that have animation or
transitions applied to them,
and turn them off.
And it helps, like, if you have crafted
animation through your application,
it's good to kind of fine tune your
turning off of it, because it's like a big
blanket, turn it off for everything
hammer doesn't always work that well.
There's also a JavaScript API for this.
You can use match media to
match that CSS media query.
You can technically do that for
any media query.
But then I can add a listener.
So I've got the motion query for
match media.
I can add a listener, so
if it changes I can go and
adjust the animation, which if my
styles are coming from JavaScript for
some reason,
that might be a nice tool to use.
And some places you can learn more about
this or the WebKit guide, cuz this was
originally proposed by WebKit, and
then the Mozilla Developer Network docs.
So for a reduced-motion demo I've got,
I'm going to go back to my app and
I've got an animation section here
with my two furry friends, Rainier and
Bagley, and I've got this one on the left
that's the completely inaccessible one.
It only works with a hover,
so that has other problems,
but the Bagley one I can skip down here,
and I've changed that one enough so
that it's actually keyboard interactive,
so it's got a button wrapping it, and if
I hit Enter, it will open that animation
and send focus to the close button.
So the one with Rainier doesn't
even have a close button, so
a keyboard user can't even get
to this Twitter link back here.
He does not have a Twitter account, but
if he did a keyboard user wouldn't be
able to get to it from this link, and
this was taken from,
kind of repurposed from a real web.
So these interactivity
examples where they only work with
a mouse, they come up in real life.
So for this one I'm just gonna go at
a media query to change that kind
of like scaling motion to be
more of a fade in and fade out.
So for this one it is in this animation,
so I've got some CSS here.
To turn, no, that's even a different one.
It's card flip.
Sorry, [LAUGH] card flip is the one that
I'm actually going to go change, and
this is a mostly accessible component,
it's better than the one in the bad.
There's a card flip in here too.
And the fix for this that I'm gonna add
is just right at the bottom in the CSS.
So if I go look in here for, so
I've got transitions,
there's using some vendor prefixes here,
there's a few, I think that's pretty
much it, there's no animation.
But you can just kind of go search around,
what's animating,
what do I need to turn off?
And in this case,
I'm just gonna go down here.
I'm gonna say @media
(prefers-reduced-motion: reduce),
and in here, I can go and target,
I think it's team-content-overlay.
Did I see that?
There it is, team-content-overlay.
So it's transitioning everything.
Everything that will be animatable that
is changing when I add this active class,
which I'm toggling with JavaScript.
So some of the animatable properties
here are margins, max height,
opacity, and so
this transition is just easing,
animating anything that is
changing that is animatable.
So that's what I'm going to turn off.
I'm just going to say transition: none.
So inside of the selector I'm just
going to say transition: none,
and sometimes you might need a bigger
hammer and saying, !important.
Don't recommend that most of the time, but
if you really want to turn off animation,
like I think the user would
appreciate that working, so
I wouldn't recommend that all the time,
and I don't think I need it in this case,
but if specificity is tripping you up or
something I think a reduced motion media
query is an acceptable place to do that.
Question?
>> Speaker 3: More of a comment,
if you don't mind.
>> Marcy Sutton: Sure.
>> Speaker 3: There's an article on
CSS Tricks about this, and
it's recommended to change the animation
duration to like 0.001 milliseconds so
that any SVG that builds up,
and it's like a mini video-
>> Marcy Sutton: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Actually loads otherwise
it would nothing, nothing would load.
>> Marcy Sutton: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: So
that was something that people found.
>> Marcy Sutton: That is a great point.
So I do wanna pull up this other one.
Sorry for the flashing.
So this one actually has, I've turned off
the transition, and then I'm replacing
the the styles with something else,
so there's some circles in here.
If I go to so there's these pulsing
styles here, and this no animate,
I'm using a mixin in SAS, and this one
I am turning on and off if you click
that button, or if you use the media
query, which is why I like SAS,
I could make something reusable and
call it from two different use cases.
But in this one I'm saying
animation: none !important, and
then giving it something else, because
otherwise, yeah, it was coming up blank,
because it was growing from zero,
and there was nothing to stop on.
It was just blank.
So yeah,
depending on your animation, yeah,
maybe you want to play with
animation delay or duration.
Maybe you want to replace it with
some other CSS styling or something,
so yeah, you can play with that.
I think from its simplest,
just turning stuff off should work.
So I'm going to go back over
here to my little Bagley demo,
and I have not,
I think I turned reduced-motion off.
So now it's just open, closed,
there's no scaling and going back down,
and that was a big thing with iOS.
When they had the scaling effect
that was making people sick, and
that moving motion, and
so these effects now,
we can actually do better on the web,
which I think is really cool.
So I can turn Bagley's animation on and
off.
This one I probably could too,
even though it's not keyboard accessible,
I could add that same CSS.